# Release notes for version 0.3, 20230811

```
┌───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐  
│ This file is part of The Unicode Tools Of Rexx (TUTOR).                                                       │
│ See https://github.com/RexxLA/rexx-repository/tree/master/ARB/standards/work-in-progress/unicode/UnicodeTools │
│ Copyright © 2023, 2024 Josep Maria Blasco <josep.maria.blasco@epbcn.com>.                                     │
│ License: Apache License 2.0 (https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).                                    │
└───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

This is a BIG release, with many changes and additions, and with a lot of preliminary documentation.

The most prominent feature in this release is the addition of Unicode-enabled input/output stream built-in functions (BIFs).
Here is the [documentation for the stream BIFs](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/RexxLA/rexx-repository/blob/master/ARB/standards/work-in-progress/unicode/UnicodeTools/doc/packages/Stream.cls.html).

### Unicode-enabled streams

A stream is said to be **Unicode-enabled** when an ``ENCODING`` is specified in the ``STREAM`` ``OPEN`` command:

```rexx
   Call Stream filename, "Command", "Open read ENCODING UTF-8"
```
Stream I/O BIFs recognize that the stream is Unicode-enabled, and change their behaviour accordingly:

* The contents of the line is automatically decoded and converted to Unicode (i.e., to a UTF-8 *presentation*).
* Both ``LINEIN`` and ``CHARIN`` return strings of type ``TEXT``, composed of extended grapheme clusters.
* When you call ``CHARIN`` and specify the *length* parameter, the appropriate number of characters (grapheme clusters) are read and returned.
* Each encoding can specify its own set of end-of-line characters. For example, the IBM-1047 encoding (a variant of EBCDIC)
  specifies that ``"15"X``, the NL character, is to be used as end-of-line. Both ``LINEIN`` and ``LINEOUT`` honor this requirement, i.e.,
  when reading lines, a line will be ended by ``"15"X``, and when writing lines, they will be ended by ``"15"X`` too, instead of the
  usual LF or CRLF combination
* When using Unicode semantics, some operations can become very expensive to implement. For example, a simple direct-access character
  substitution in a file is trivial to implement for ASCII streams, but it can become prohibitive when using a variable-length encoding.
  These operations have been restricted in the current release.
* Similarly, when the Unicode-enabled stream has a string target of ``TEXT`` (the default), some operations can become prohibitive too:
  a ``TEXT`` "character" is, indeed, a grapheme cluster, and a grapheme cluster can have an arbitrary length. Direct-access character
  substitutions become too expensive to implement.

**Note**: *We should start a discussion about what features we are used to, like direct-access character substitution, make sense and should be
implemented for Unicode-enabled streams*.

### Error handling

When using a Unicode-enabled stream, encoding and decoding errors can occur. By default, ill-formed characters are replaced by the Unicode
Replacement Character (``U+FFFd``). You can explicitly request this behaviour by specifying the ``REPLACE`` option in the ``ENCODING``
of your stream:

```rexx
   Call Stream filename, "Command", "Open read ENCODING UTF-8 REPLACE"
```

``REPLACE`` is the default option for error handling. You can also specify ``SYNTAX`` as an error handling option,

```rexx
   Call Stream filename, "Command", "Open read ENCODING UTF-8 SYNTAX"
```

Finding ill-formed characters will then raise a Syntax error. If the Syntax condition is trapped, you will be able to access the
undecoded or unencoded offending line or character sequence by using the ``"QUERY ENCODING LASTERROR"`` ``STREAM`` command:

```rexx
   Call Stream filename, "Command", "Open read ENCODING UTF-8 SYNTAX"
   ...
   Signal On Syntax
   ...
   var = LineIn(filename)           -- May raise a Syntax error
   -- Do something with "var"
   ...
   Syntax:
      offendingLine = Stream(filename, "Command", "Query Encoding Lasterror")
      -- Do something with "offendingLine"
   ...
```
### Specifying the target type

By default, Unicode-enabled streams return strings of type ``TEXT``, composed of grapheme clusters. In some occasions, you may prefer
to receive ``CODEPOINTS`` strings. You can specify the target type in the ``ENCODING`` section of your ``STREAM`` ``OPEN`` command:

```rexx
   Call Stream filename, "Command", "Open read ENCODING UTF-8 TEXT"
```

When you specify ``TEXT`` (the default), returned strings are of type ``TEXT``. When you specify ``CODEPOINTS``, returned strings are
of type ``CODEPOINTS``.

**Note**: *Some operations that are easy to implement for a ``CODEPOINTS`` target type can become impractical when switching to a ``TEXT`` type.
For example, UTF-32 is a fixed-length encoding, so that with a ``CODEPOINTS`` target type, direct-access character positioning and
substitution is trivial to implement. On the other hand, if the target type is ``TEXT``, these operations become very difficult to implement*.

### STREAM QUERY extensions

The ``STREAM`` BIF has been extended to support Unicode-enabled streams:

```Rexx
  Call Stream filename, "Command", "Open read ENCODING IMB1047 CODEPOINTS SYNTAX"    -- Now "filename" refers to a Unicode-enabled stream
  Say  Stream(filename, "Command", "Query Encoding Name")                            -- "IBM1047"
  Say  Stream(filename, "Command", "Query Encoding Target")                          -- "CODEPOINTS", the name of the target type
  Say  Stream(filename, "Command", "Query Encoding Error")                           -- "SYNTAX", the name of the error handling option
  Say  Stream(filename, "Command", "Query Encoding LastError")                       -- "", the offending line or character sequence
  Say  Stream(filename, "Command", "Query Encoding")                                 -- "IBM1047 CODEPOINTS SYNTAX"
```

### Manual encoding and decoding

Although the simplicity and ease of use of Unicode-enabled streams is very convenient, in some cases you may want to resort to manual
encoding and decoding operations. For maximum control, you can use the new BIFs, ``ENCODE`` and ``DECODE`` (defined in 
[Unicode.cls](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/RexxLA/rexx-repository/blob/master/ARB/standards/work-in-progress/unicode/UnicodeTools/doc/packages/Unicode.cls.html)).

``DECODE`` can be used as an *encoding validator*:

```rexx
   wellFormed = DECODE(string, encoding)
```

will return a boolean value indicating whether *string* can be decoded without errors by using the specified *encoded* (i.e., **1** when the decoding will succeed, and **0** otherwise).

You can also use ``DECODE`` to decode a string, by specifying a target format (currently, only UTF-8 and UTF-32 are supported):

```rexx
   decoded = DECODE(string, encoding, "UTF-8")
```

In this case, the function will return the null string if *string* cannot be decoded without errors with the specified *encoding*, and the decoded version of its first argument if no ill-formed character combinations are found.

Since encoding and decoding are considered to be low-level operations, the results of ``ENCODE`` and ``DECODE`` are always ``BYTES`` strings. If you need
more features for the returned strings, you can always promote the results to higher types by using the ``CODEPOINTS`` and ``TEXT`` BIFs.

#### Manual decoding and error handling

A fourth argument to the ``ENCODE`` BIF determines the way in which ill-formed character sequences are handled:

```rexx
   decoded = DECODE(string, encoding, "UTF-8", "REPLACE")
```

When the fourth argument is omitted, or is specified as ``""`` or ``"NULL"`` (the default), a null string is returned if any ill-formed sequence is found.
When the fourth argument is ``"REPLACE"``, any ill-formed character is replaced with the Unicode Replacement Character (U+FFFD). When the fourth
argument if ``"SYNTAX"``, a Syntax error is raised in the event that an ill-formed sequence is found.

## Other changes and additions

### ooRexxDoc documentation

I have started to document the programs using ooRexxDoc. This is a work-in-progress.

### To the ``rxu`` [Rexx Preprocessor for Unicode](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/RexxLA/rexx-repository/blob/master/ARB/standards/work-in-progress/unicode/UnicodeTools/doc/packages/rxu.rex.html)

* Recognize BIFs in CALL instructions.
* Remove support for OPTIONS CONVERSIONS (wanted to rethink the feature).
* Change "C" suffix for classic strings to "Y", as per Rony's suggestion.
* "U" strings are now BYTES strings.
* Implement DATATYPE(string, "C") (syntax checks uniCode strings).
* Implement LINEIN, LINEOUR, CHARIN, CHAROUT, CHARS and LINES.

### To the main Unicode class, [Unicode.cls](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/RexxLA/rexx-repository/blob/master/ARB/standards/work-in-progress/unicode/UnicodeTools/doc/packages/Unicode.cls.html)

* Rename P2U to C2U, and create a new U2C BIF. Complete symmetry with C2X, X2C and DATATYPE("X").

### Encoding support

A new ``encoding`` subdirectory has been created. The main encoding class is [``Encoding.cls``](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/RexxLA/rexx-repository/blob/master/ARB/standards/work-in-progress/unicode/UnicodeTools/doc/packages/Encoding.cls.html). Concrete encodings
are subclasses of ``Encoding.cls``, and are automatically recognized when they are added to the ``encoding`` subdirectory.

**Note**: *the encoding interface is likely to change in the following releases*.

### Samples

Numerous sample programs have been added to the ``samples`` directory. Most of these programs test the behaviour of the enhanced BIFs.
